The opening song of our convention program reminded us that our reasons for joy are abundant,
and that true joy is well-founded with roots reaching deep in God's Word.
Just as a tree anchors itself in the earth nourishing soil,
so true joy is anchored in the sayings of Jehovah,
and those sayings promise us joy that will last forever.
But isn't it also true that Satan's world promises to give us joy?
Yet any measure of joy derive from things in Satan's world,
such as pursuing wealth, wrongdoing, extreme views of work,
or friendships in the world, is a false joy that is short-lived.
Think back to our illustration of the tree.
Can a tree survive if its roots have been poisoned with chemicals?
Of course not.
Well, how long will we experience joy if we seek it in this poisonous world of Satan?
Not long at all.
This symposium will contrast what the world teaches about joy
with what God's Word teaches.
As you listen and watch, consider these questions.
Why do the world's ways of finding joy not work?
And am I pursuing what truly contributes to joy?
In this talk, we'll discuss how pursuing a simple life contributes to joy.
The world teaches that pursuing wealth and having money will make you happy.
And an illustration of Jesus at Luke 12 highlights that point.
Please turn there with me.
Luke 12.
In the illustration, the land of a rich man produced well,
he planned on building bigger storehouses,
and noticed Luke 12 verse 19 with the man said himself.
You have many good things stored up for many years.
Take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.
So the man thought that because of having many good things,
he could enjoy them for many years.
But notice what God told him according to verse 20.
Unreasonable one, this night they are demanding your life from you.
Who then is to have the things you stored up?
So in reality, the man's joy from pursuing wealth was short-lived.
To further illustrate this point, as you watch the following dramatization,
consider how a brother responds to an offer of more money and how it affects his joy.
You wanted to see me?
Yeah, come on in and go ahead and close the door, please.
Thanks for coming up.
Yeah, absolutely.
And Ben, all of your projects have come in on schedule and under budget.
We're really impressed, and we want to move you up to the management team.
Now, you had up the whole division to start.
Management team, I like the sound of that.
Not to mention the pay raise and the bonuses.
It did sound like a lot more work, but Victor was so positive.
There may be a little overtime here and there, but I wouldn't worry about it.
Not with your skill.
He told me I could think about it before deciding.
But come on.
This was a no-brainer.
The new position was great.
And the money?
Well, that wasn't too bad either.
It was exciting to work directly with clients.
But the hours were crazy.
Our seldom the same.
We see an example of this in this week's Bible reading.
True worship, the right thing, was not easy.
So required hard work.
King Hezekiah demonstrated his...
So a question for the audience is, how could we explain this to someone?
Able, please.
Most nights, I was wiped out.
And I have to admit, even when I wasn't working, I was working.
As highlighted in the video, why will pursuing money not make us happy?
Because we wouldn't be following Jehovah's advice.
And that would cause us to fall into a snare or trap, as mentioned at 1 Timothy chapter 6 verse 9.
Without our even realizing it, that snare can consume our time.
Time that we need to be spending on spiritual things.
How was that shown in the video?
Well, the pay raise, bonuses, new car, and other things may have made our brother happy for a short time.
However, did you notice how pursuing money was a snare for him?
Most nights, he was exhausted from working long hours.
He arrived late to the meeting and fell asleep.
And did you notice what happened to his participation in the field ministry,
the most important work on earth?
It suffered, didn't it?
He wasn't prepared, and he experienced interruptions from his workplace.
It's true that money is useful, and we need it to buy food, shelter, and clothing.
But trading spiritual things for wealth is always a poor investment.
On the other hand, a life focused on serving Jehovah is a simple life that brings deep and lasting joy.
Jesus emphasized this in his words at Matthew 6.22.
If then your eye is focused, your whole body will be bright.
The basic meaning of the Greek word for focused is single or simple.
It can convey the idea of singleness of mind or devotion to one purpose.
For example, if we focus our life on material things,
they could take up a lot of our time and energy,
and we may not take time to pray, study, or preach.
How much better to follow Jesus' instruction and keep our life simple?
By focusing on putting God's service first in our life, we'll have true joy.
As you watch the following dramatization,
consider how our brother gains joy when he makes a different decision.
We're really impressed, and we want to move you up to the management team.
Now, you head up the whole division to start.
Victor's offer really took me by surprise.
And wow, the perks were tempting.
But I knew there was a lot at stake.
So I told him I talked to Lisa and get back to him tomorrow.
What was this job going to mean for our spiritual goals?
Would we still be able to keep our life simple?
Were we ready to trade our time together as a family for more money?
The next day, I told Victor how much I appreciated the opportunity,
but felt that it just wasn't the right fit for our family.
Money was tight, but we were okay.
We had what we needed.
Saying no to that promotion meant holding off on a few upgrades.
But it also meant more time for meeting preparation,
more time for the ministry, and more time for each other.
Did you notice the happiness of our brother and his family
when he decided to live a simple life?
But why does a simple life bring us happiness?
Ecclesiastes chapter 5 verse 12 highlights one reason.
Let's look at that together.
Ecclesiastes chapter 5 verse 12.
Why does a simple life bring us happiness?
The verse says,
Sweet is the sleep of the one serving,
whether he eats little or much.
But the plenty belonging to the rich one does not permit him to sleep.
So those who possess much may be anxious about losing their possessions,
and thus lose sleep worrying about them.
In contrast, those with little materially have less to worry about,
and they can enjoy as the verse says, sweet sleep.
The point, when we refuse to allow material things to interfere with our sacred service,
we gain satisfaction, peace, and joy.
So if you're presented with an offer like the one given to our brother in the video,
what should you do?
First, pray.
Pray for help to make a decision that will be pleasing to Jehovah.
Then ask yourself,
Will this decision complicate my life?
And how will this affect the time I spend serving Jehovah?
Questions like those helped our brother in the video to make a decision that brought great joy.
Remember, any decision you make that promotes a simple life,
focused on serving Jehovah, will lead to joy that is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God's Word.
May all of us attain the true joy that comes from living a simple life.
But a simple life is not the only thing that leads to joy.
Listen as Brother Robert Saranco, a helper to the writing committee,
now considers the next talk of this symposium.
What contributes to joy?
A clean conscience.